CHAPTER 2
DIGITAL SIGNATURE AND ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE

3. Authentication of electronic records

(1) Subject to the provisions of this section any subscriber may authenticate an
electronic record by affixing his digital signature.
(2) The authentication of the electronic record shall be effected by the use of
asymmetric crypto system and hash function which envelop and transform the initial
electronic record into another electronic record.
Explanation.For the purposes of this sub-section, hash function means an algorithm
mapping or translation of one sequence of bits into another, generally smaller, set known
as hash result such that an electronic record yields the same hash result every time the
algorithm is executed with the same electronic record as its input making it
computationally infeasible
(a) to derive or reconstruct the original electronic record from the hash result
produced by the algorithm;
(b) that two electronic records can produce the same hash result using the algorithm.
(3) Any person by the use of a public key of the subscriber can verify the electronic
record.
(4) The private key and the public key are unique to the subscriber and constitute a
functioning key pair

OBJECTS AND REASONS
Clause 3.This clause provides the conditions subject to which an electronic record
may be authenticated by means of affixing digital signature. The digital signature is
created in two distinct steps. First the electronic record is converted into a message digest
by using a mathematical function known as hash function which digitally freezes the
electronic record thus ensuring the integrity of the content of the intended communication
contained in the electronic record. Any tampering with the contents of the electronic
record will immediately invalidate the digital signature. Secondly the identity of the
person affixing the digital signature is authenticated through the use of a private key
which attaches itself to the message digest and which can be verified by anybody who
has the public key corresponding to such private key. This will enable anybody to verify
whether the electronic record is retained intact or has been tampered with since it was so
fixed with the digital signature. It will also enable a person who has a public key to
identify the originator of the message.