THE SECOND SCHEDULE

[See sub-section (1) of section 3A]
ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE OR ELECTRONIC AUTHENTICATION TECHNIQUE AND PROCEDURE

Description Procedure
(1) (2) (3)

[1.e-authentication technique
[2.using Aadhaar [or other] - KYC services Authentication of
an electronic record by eauthentication Technique
which shall be done
by-e-authentication technique
and procedure for creating
and accessing subscriber's
signature key facilitated by
trusted third party
(a) the applicable use of e-authentication, hash, and
asymmetric crypto system techniques, leading to
issuance of Digital Signature Certificate by Certifying
Authority.
(b) a trusted third party service by subscriber's key
pair-generation, storing of key pairs
c
[***] and
creation of digital signature provided that the trusted
third party shall be offered by the certifying authority.
The trusted third party shall send application form and
certificate signing request to the Certifying Authority
for issuing a Digital Signature Certificate to the
subscriber.
(c) Issuance of Digital Signature Certificate by
Certifying Authority shall be based on eauthentication, particulars specified in Form C of
Schedule IV of the Information Technology (Certifying
Authorities) Rules, 2000, digitally signed verified
information from Aadhaar d[or other] e-KYC services
and electronic consent of Digital Signature Certificate
applicant.
(d) The manner and requirements for e-authentication
shall be as issued by the Controller rom time to time.
(e) The security procedure for creating the
subscriber’s key pair d[and other e-KYC services]shall
be in accordance with the e-authentication guidelines
issued by the Controller.
(f) The standards referred to in rule 6 of the
Information Technology (Certifying Authorities) Rules,
2000 shall be complied with, in so far as they relate to
the certification function of public key of Digital
Signature Certificate applicant.
(g) The manner in which information is authenticated
by means of digital signature shall comply with the
standards specified in rule 6 of the Information
technology (Certifying Authorities) Rules, 2000 in so
far as they relate to the creation, storage and
transmission of Digital Signature Certificate.]
Authentication of an electronic record by eauthentication technique which shall be done by-
(a) the applicable use of e-authentication ,hash and
asymmetric crypto system techniques leading to
issuance of Digital Signature Certificate by Certifying
Authority, provided that Certifying Authority shall
ensure the subscriber identity verification, secure
storage of the keys by trusted third party and
subscriber’s sole authentication control to the
signature key.
(b) Identity verification of Digital Signature Certificate
applicant shall be in accordance with the Identity
Verification Guidelines issued by Controller from timeto-time.
(c) The requirement to operate as trusted third party
shall be specified under e-authentication guidelines
issued by the Controller.
(d) a trusted third party shall
i) facilitate Identity verification of Digital Signature
Certificate applicant;
ii) establish secure storage for subscriber to have sole
control for creation and subsequent usage of
subscriber's signature key by sole authentication of
subscriber;
iii) facilitate key pair-generation, secure storage of
subscriber's signature key and facilitate signature
creation functions;
iv) facilitate the submission of DSC application form
and certificate signing request to the Certifying
Authority for issuing a Digital Signature Certificate to
the DSC applicant, and
v) facilitate revocation of Digital Signature Certificate
and destruction of subscriber's signature key.
(e) Issuance of Digital Signature Certificate shall be
based on verification of credentials of Digital Signature
Certificate applicant by Certifying Authority as per the
provisions of the Information Technology Act and
Rules made thereunder.
(f) The manner and requirements for authentication
and storage of keys shall be as issued by the
Controller from time to time under e-authentication
guidelines
(g) The security procedure for creating the
subscriber’s key pair shall be in accordance with the eauthentication guidelines issued by the Controller.
(h) The standards referred to in rule 6 of the
Information Technology (Certifying Authorities) Rules,
2000 shall be complied with, in so far as they relate to
the certification function of public key of Digital
Signature Certificate applicant.
(i) The manner in which information is authenticated
by means of digital signature shall comply with the
manner and standards specified in rule 3 to 12 of
Digital Signature (End entity) Rules, 2015 in so far as
they relate to the creation, storage and verification of
Digital Signature.]

